# Automated-Setup-of-3-Tier-Application-Locally
This project is to automate setup locally using NGINX, Apache Tomcat,Memcached,Rabbit and MySQL
We will be using Vagrant (a tool for buiding and managing virtual machine environment in a single workflow. With an easy-to-use workflow and focus on automation,Vagrant lowers development environment setup time,increases production parity, and makes the "works on my machine" excuse a relic of the past.We have heard the dreaded "works on my machine" excuse from developers when something breaks in staging or production. This happens becuase developers often use different setups and configurations locally than what is used in other environments. These inconsistencies waste time debugging issues that only appear outside development and result in defects reaching users.Standardized development environment (SDEs) can prevent these problems by ensuring everyone codes using identifical infrastructure and configurations. SDEs greatly boost productivity, code quality and velocity by bridging local development and deployment gaps.
We will also use Apache Tomcat which is an open-source web server and Servlet container for Java code. It's a production-ready Java development tool used to implement many types of Jakarta EE (formerly known as Java EE) specifications.
We will use Memchached which is a general-purpose distributed memory-caching system. It is often used to speed up dynamic database-driven websites by caching data and objects in RAM to reduce the number of times an external data source (such as database or API) must be read. 
We will use Rabbit MQ- an open-source message-broker software  (sometimes called message-oriented middleware) that originally implemented the Advanced Message Queuing Protocol (AMPQ) and has since been extended with a plug-in architecture to support Streaming Text Oriented Messaging Protocol (STOMP),MQ Telemetry Transport (MQTT). It is a reliable and mature messaging and streaming broker, which is easy to deploy on cloud environments, and on local machine.
NGINX (eninge X) is an open source web server software that also performs reverse proxy, load balancing, email proxy and HTTP cache services.It provides HTTPS server capabilities and is mainly designed for maximum performance and stability. It also functions as a pro-server for email communications protocols such IMAP,POP3 and SMTP.
